
If the output of my recommender system were a movie and my predicted rating for that movie, in a train/test system I could actually try to figure out how well do I predict movies that the user has in fact watched and rated before? Okay? So, I could set aside some of the ratings data and see how well my recommender system is able to predict the user's ratings for those movies. And, that would be a quantitative and principled way to measure the error of this recommender engine. But again, there's a little bit more of an art than a science to this. Even though the Netflix prize actually used that error metric, called root-mean-square error is what they used in particular, is that really a measure of a good recommender system?

Basically, you're measuring the ability of your recommender system to predict the ratings of movies that a person already watched. But isn't the purpose of a recommender engine to recommend movies that a person hasn't watched, that they might enjoy? Those are two different things. So unfortunately, it's not very easy to measure the thing you really want to be measuring. So sometimes, you do kind of have to go with your gut instinct. And, the right way to measure the results of a recommender engine is to measure the results that you're trying to promote through it.

Maybe I'm trying to get people to watch more movies, or rate new movies more highly, or buy more stuff. Running actual controlled experiments on a real website would be the right way to optimize for that, as opposed to using train/test. So, you know, I went into a little bit more detail there than I probably should have, but the lesson is, you can't always think about these things in black and white. Sometimes, you can't really measure things directly and quantitatively, and you have to use a little bit of common sense, and this is an example of that.

Anyway, those are some ideas on how to go back and improve upon the results of this recommender engine that we wrote. So, please feel free to tinker around with it, see if you can improve upon it however you wish to, and have some fun with it. This is actually a very interesting part of the book, so I hope you enjoy it!

