
Obviously the math gets pretty weird pretty quickly with all this. Fortunately, the scikit-learn package will do it all for you, without you having to actually get into it. Under the hood, you need to understand though that it uses something called the kernel trick to actually find those support vectors or hyperplanes that might not be apparent in lower dimensions. There are different kernels you can use, to do this in different ways. The main point is that SVM's are a good choice if you have higher- dimensional data with lots of different features, and there are different kernels you can use that have varying computational costs and might be better fits for the problem at hand.

**Note:**

The important point is that SVMs employ some advanced mathematical trickery to cluster data, and it can handle data sets with lots of features. It's also fairly expensive - the "kernel trick" is the only thing that makes it possible.

I want to point out that SVM is a supervised learning technique. So, we're actually going to train it on a set of training data, and we can use that to make predictions for future unseen data or test data. It's a little bit different than k-means clustering and that k-means was completely unsupervised; with a support vector machine, by contrast, it is training based on actual training data where you have the answer of the correct classification for some set of data that it can learn from. So, SVM's are useful for classification and clustering, if you will - but it's a supervised technique!

One example that you often see with SVMs is using something called support vector classification. The typical example uses the Iris dataset which is one of the sample datasets that comes with scikit-learn. This set is a classification of different flowers, different observations of different Iris flowers and their species. The idea is to classify these using information about the length and width of the petal on each flower, and the length and width of the sepal of each flower. (The sepal, apparently, is a little support structure underneath the petal. I didn't know that until now either.) You have four dimensions of attributes there; you have the length and width of the petal, and the length and the width of the sepal. You can use that to predict the species of an Iris given that information.
