Weka prefers to load data in the ARFF format. ARFF is an acronym that stands for AttributeRelation File Format. It is an extension of the CSV file format where a header is used that
provides metadata about the data types in the columns. For example, the first few lines of the
classic iris flowers dataset in CSV format looks as follows:

```
51,35,14,02,Iris-setosa
49,30,14,02,Iris-setosa
47,32,13,02,Iris-setosa
46,31,15,02,Iris-setosa
50,36,14,02,Iris-setosa
```

The same file in ARFF format looks as follows:

```
@RELATION iris
@ATTRIBUTE
@ATTRIBUTE
@ATTRIBUTE
@ATTRIBUTE
@ATTRIBUTE

sepallength REAL
sepalwidth REAL
petallength REAL
petalwidth REAL
class {Iris-setosa,Iris-versicolor,Iris-virginica}

@DATA
51,35,14,02,Iris-setosa
49,30,14,02,Iris-setosa
47,32,13,02,Iris-setosa
46,31,15,02,Iris-setosa
50,36,14,02,Iris-setosa
```

You can see that directives start with the at symbol (@) and that there is one for the name
of the dataset (e.g. @RELATION iris), there is a directive to define the name and datatype of
each attribute (e.g. @ATTRIBUTE sepallength REAL) and there is a directive to indicate the
start of the raw data (e.g. @DATA). Lines in an ARFF file that start with a percentage symbol
(%) indicate a comment. Values in the raw data section that have a question mark symbol (?)
indicate an unknown or missing value. The format supports numeric and categorical values
as in the iris example above, but also supports dates and string values. Depending on your
installation of Weka, you may or may not have some default datasets in your Weka installation
directory under the /root/Desktop/weka/examples/ subdirectory. These default datasets distributed with Weka are in
the ARFF format and have the .arff file extension. You will learn more about these datasets
in the next Lesson.