Now, let's get an idea of what cookies and sessions are.

#### Cookies
Cookies are data that's generated and stored by websites on your system or computer. Data in cookies helps identify web requests from the user to the website. Data in cookies is stored in key:value pairs. Data that's stored in cookies helps websites access that data and transfer certain saved values in the form of a quick interaction.

Cookies also allow websites to track user profiles, their web habits, and so on, and use such information for indexing, page ads, and marketing activities. 

Cookie-based data can last for a session (that is, from the time that a web page is loaded until the browser is closed) forming what are known as a session cookies, or for days, weeks, or months, which are known as permanent or stored cookies. Cookies can also contain expiry values in seconds and are expired or deleted from the system once the period of time expressed in this value elapses.

#### Sessions
Sessions are properties that enforce state-based communication between two systems. A session is used to store user information temporarily and is also deleted as soon as the user quits the browser or leaves the website.

A session is used for maintaining security activity. A unique identification number, also known as a session ID or session key, is generated by the website and is used to track their users or security-based features independently. In most cases of session availability, it can be traced using cookies too.

#### User authentication
User authentication deals with handling and managing user-based identification processes. Websites offer user registration through their registration page and thereby collect user inputs for required or available fields. A user's details are saved in secure places such as the cloud or server-based databases, or any other secure system. 

Registered users are verified and are permitted to log in and log out from their system, and are identified by their username, password, and email address. 

Form processing, cookies, session management, and other security-based measures can be deployed either individually or collaboratively for this process.
