As an exercise, I want to challenge you to go and make those recommendations even better. So, let's talk about some ideas I have, and maybe you'll have some of your own too that you can actually try out and experiment with; get your hands dirty, and try to make better movie recommendations.

Okay, there's a lot of room for improvement still on these recommendation results. There's a lot of decisions we made about how to weigh different recommendation results based on your rating of that item that it came from, or what threshold you want to pick for the minimum number of people that rated two given movies. So, there's a lot of things you can tweak, a lot of different algorithms you can try, and you can have a lot of fun with trying to make better movie recommendations out of the system. So, if you're feeling up to it, I'm challenging you to go and do just that!

Here are some ideas on how you might actually try to improve upon the results in this scenario. First, you can just go ahead and play with the `ItembasedCF.ipynb` file and tinker with it. So, for example, we saw that the correlation method actually had some parameters for the correlation computation, we used Pearson in our example, but there are other ones you can look up and try out, see what it does to your results. We used a minimum period value of 100, maybe that's too high, maybe it's too low; we just kind of picked it arbitrarily. What happens if you play with that value? If you were to lower that for example, I would expect you to see some new movies maybe you've never heard of, but might still be a good recommendation for that person. Or, if you were to raise it higher, you would see, you know nothing but blockbusters.

Sometimes you have to think about what the result is that you want out of a recommender system. Is there a good balance to be had between showing people movies that they've heard of and movies that they haven't heard of? How important is discovery of new movies to these people versus having confidence in the recommender system by seeing a lot of movies that they have heard of? So again, there's sort of an art to that.

We can also improve upon the fact that we saw a lot of movies in the results that were similar to Gone with the Wind, even though I didn't like Gone with the Wind. You know we weighted those results lower than similarities to movies that I enjoyed, but maybe those movies should actually be penalized. If I hated Gone with the Wind that much, maybe similarities to Gone with the Wind, like The Wizard of Oz, should actually be penalized and, you know lowered in their score instead of raised at all.

That's another simple modification you can make and play around with. There are probably some outliers in our user rating dataset, what if I were to throw away people that rated some ridiculous number of movies? Maybe they're skewing everything. You could actually try to identify those users and throw them out, as another idea. And, if you really want a big project, if you really want to sink your teeth into this stuff, you could actually evaluate the results of this recommender engine by using the techniques of train/test. So, what if instead of having an arbitrary recommendation score that sums up the correlation scores of each individual movie, actually scale that down to a predicted rating for each given movie.
