Creating a custom template
In most cases, developers use the predefined OpenShift templates that come with the OpenShift installation; however, at times they don't suit a particular case, so a customized template has to be developed. In this section, we will provide you with an overview of how to create your own template.

Developing YAML/JSON template definitions
If you are familiar with the template layout, you might want to develop a template from scratch, using a standard YAML or JSON-based file. This method will allow you to create a clean template, without any runtime data.

Some of OpenShift's features may speed up the process of template development. For example, oc explain allows you to explore the syntax of all OpenShift API objects, serving as a form of documentation.

If given no parameters, oc explain lists all of the kinds of resources supported by the current version of OpenShift:

Copy
# oc explain
You must specify the type of resource to explain. Valid resource types include:

    * all
    * buildconfigs (aka 'bc')
    * builds
    * certificatesigningrequests (aka 'csr')
    * clusterrolebindings
    * clusterroles
...
<output omitted>
...
    error: Required resource not specified.
See 'oc explain -h' for help and examples.
The preceding command accepts the type of a resource as an argument, in order to display its syntax:

Copy
# oc explain svc
...
<output omitted>
...
FIELDS:
   metadata    <Object>
     Standard object's metadata. More info:
     https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#metadata
...
<output omitted>
...
Some OpenShift resources have multilevel structures. Use . (the dot) as a level separator, to find out the structure of such an attribute:

Copy
# oc explain svc.metadata

 

And you can go even further in this hierarchy:

$ oc explain svc.metadata.uid

```
DESCRIPTION:
     UID is the unique in time and space value for this object. It is typically generated by the server on successful creation of a resource and is not allowed to change on PUT operations. Populated by the system. Read-only.
```