
Things like Hive let you host a massive database on a Hadoop cluster. There's things like Spark SQL that let you also do queries in a very SQL-like data warehouse-like manner, on a data warehouse that is actually distributed on Hadoop cluster. There are also distributed NoSQL data stores that can be queried using Spark and MapReduce. The idea is that instead of using a monolithic database for a data warehouse, you're instead using something built on top of Hadoop, or some sort of a cluster, that can actually not only scale up the processing and querying of that data, but also scale the transformation of that data as well.

Once again, you first extract your raw data, but then we're going to load it into the data warehouse system itself as is. And, then use the power of the data warehouse, which might be built on Hadoop, to do that transformation as the third step. Then I can query things together. So, it's a very big project, very big topic. You know, data warehousing is an entire discipline in and of itself. We're going to talk about Spark some more in this book very soon, which is one way of handling this thing - there's something called Spark SQL in particular that's relevant.

The overall concept here is that if you move from a monolithic database built on Oracle or MySQL to one of these more modern distributed databases built on top of Hadoop, you can take that transform stage and actually do that after you've loaded in the raw data, as opposed to before. That can end up being simpler and more scalable, and taking advantage of the power of large computing clusters that are available today.

That's ETL versus ELT, the legacy way of doing it with a lot of clusters all over the place in cloud-based computing versus a way that makes sense today, when we do have large clouds of computing available to us for transforming large datasets. That's the concept.

ETL is kind of the old school way of doing it, you transform a bunch of data offline before importing it in and loading it into a giant data warehouse, monolithic database. But with today's techniques, with cloud-based databases, and Hadoop, and Hive, and Spark, and MapReduce, you can actually do it a little bit more efficiently and take the power of a cluster to actually do that transformation step after you've loaded the raw data into your data warehouse.

This is really changing the field and it's important that you know about it. Again, there's a lot more to learn on the subject, so I encourage you to explore more on this topic. But, that's the basic concept, and now you know what people are talking about when they talk about ETL versus ELT.