Cloud computing
---------------

* * * * *

OK. Let's start at the beginning. So, what actually is cloud computing?

Cloud computing is an IT paradigm that advocates the use of shared pools
of configurable resources and services provided over the internet. Those
services are provided on demand, rapidly, and with minimal management.
As a result, cloud computing allows for flexible architecture, optimized
resource usage, and the possibility of decoupling the infrastructure
provider from a consumer, enabling the separation of concerns. Let's
examine those statements in greater detail.

Resources provisioned on demand give you, as a developer or an
architect, flexibility in configuring your technical infrastructure.
Starting the project is cheap, as you don't have to begin with
infrastructure investments. Also, when your project is in production,
computing resources may be scaled automatically to fill your
application's demands. In each case, you are paying only for the
resources used.

Furthermore, cloud computing introduces the separation of concerns. The
cloud provider becomes specialized in provisioning the infrastructure.
The developers are provided with the interface of the cloud
infrastructure and will use it for the development. As a result, they
don't need to be concerned with the details of the infrastructure
configuration as long as they comply with the interface provided by the
cloud. Cloud providers, on the other hand, have to compete to provide
the most convenient and robust cloud infrastructure while minimizing the
costs.

Throughout this chapter, we will describe the cloud interface provided
by OpenShift. Before that, we will describe the following two cloud
infrastructure characteristics, which will enable the use of a
consistent set of concepts during the following chapters: deployment and
service models. Let's start with the first one.

### The cloud infrastructure deployment model

The cloud deployment model specifies how cloud infrastructure is
organized. Let's look at commonly used models.

#### The public cloud

The **public cloud** is a model in which services are provided over a
network for public usage.

Public cloud computing is sometimes described as an evolution of
computing resources into utility such as electricity. Using the example
of a power provider may give you an alternative insight into the topics
described in this paragraph: the power distribution company is
responsible, among other, for ensuring that the network can deal with
demand peaks, or provide network redundancy in case of traction
breakdown. However, in the end, we don't think about it too much—we
insert the plug into the socket when needed and get billed only for
electricity we used.

We shouldn't stretch that analogy too far though. Computing resources
are obviously not a commodity like electricity, and they cannot be
provided to everyone in a uniform manner because of different customer
requirements.

First of all, not all customers are able, for various reasons, to move
their workloads to the public cloud. One of the reasons may be the need
for a higher level of security or greater control over the architecture.
Such customers can take advantage of the private cloud discuss it.

#### The private cloud

In the **private cloud**, the computing resources used to create the
cloud are dedicated to a single customer. The resources may be located
on-site or off-site, owned by the customer, or managed by a third party.
All of the resources are provisioned for a single client and are not
shared by multiple clients. Such a configuration allows for greater
control and security but requires the company to invest in and manage
the cloud resources, removing the decoupling benefit of the public
cloud.

#### The hybrid cloud

The **hybrid cloud** is a model in which public and private clouds are
connected together. As a result, you can take advantage of both
solutions. For example, you can run services that deal with sensitive
data on the private cloud, but use the public cloud to scale other
services.

### Note

We would like our cloud provider to provide cloud abstraction that will
enable users to see a homogeneous cloud view, abstracting away the
infrastructure details of the hybrid cloud. We will return to this
thought later, when we describe the architecture of OpenShift.

Let's now focus on another cloud characteristic, that is, the **service
model**.

### The service model

As you learned at the beginning of this chapter, the cloud provider is
responsible for providing computing resources on demand. Computing
resources can be provisioned in different ways, and characterized by
different levels of abstraction. This feature of cloud computing
infrastructure is called a service model. Let's describe the commonly
used models.

#### Infrastructure as a Service

In **Infrastructure as a Service** (**IaaS**), a customer is able to
install arbitrary applications (including operating systems) on the
provisioned resources. The customer does not control the infrastructure
that is provided by the cloud provider. For example, the customer may
get access to a remote virtual machine, which they can fully operate.

#### Platform as a Service

In **Platform as a Service** (**PaaS**), as its name suggests, thecloud
provider is responsible for providing the customer with a ready-for-use
the platform on which the customer can deploy and run their
applications. Let's suppose that you want to use the database. In this
case, the platform provider is responsible for giving you access to an
up-to-date and configured database on which you can start working
immediately. You don't have to mess with the entire configuration, and
can start working with the database (or any other technology; WildFly
Swarm, for example) straightaway.

#### Software as a Service

Finally, there is **Software as a Service** (**SaaS**). In this model,
the customer is able to use the application provided by the cloud
provider. An example of SaaS may be disc storage, email, or an office
suite provided over the internet.

OK, now that we've clarified the nomenclature, we can finally dig into
OpenShift architecture.
