
### The service model

As you learned at the beginning of this chapter, the cloud provider is
responsible for providing computing resources on demand. Computing
resources can be provisioned in different ways, and characterized by
different levels of abstraction. This feature of cloud computing
infrastructure is called a service model. Let's describe the commonly
used models.

#### Infrastructure as a Service

In **Infrastructure as a Service** (**IaaS**), a customer is able to
install arbitrary applications (including operating systems) on the
provisioned resources. The customer does not control the infrastructure
that is provided by the cloud provider. For example, the customer may
get access to a remote virtual machine, which they can fully operate.

#### Platform as a Service

In **Platform as a Service** (**PaaS**), as its name suggests, thecloud
provider is responsible for providing the customer with a ready-for-use
the platform on which the customer can deploy and run their
applications. Let's suppose that you want to use the database. In this
case, the platform provider is responsible for giving you access to an
up-to-date and configured database on which you can start working
immediately. You don't have to mess with the entire configuration, and
can start working with the database (or any other technology; WildFly
Swarm, for example) straightaway.

#### Software as a Service

Finally, there is **Software as a Service** (**SaaS**). In this model,
the customer is able to use the application provided by the cloud
provider. An example of SaaS may be disc storage, email, or an office
suite provided over the internet.

OK, now that we've clarified the nomenclature, we can finally dig into
OpenShift architecture.
