
Now, what about writing to a file?

The storage controller uses a copy-on-write strategy when writing a file
to a filesystem. The driver looks for a file in all the layers, again
from top to bottom. If the file is present in the container's writable
layer, it can be directly open for write. If it is present in one of the
image's layers, it is copied to a writable layer and opened for write.

Let's return to our example. Let's suppose that **CONTAINER1** wants to
write to the `~/A/a.txt`file:

![](https://github.com/athertahir/katacoda-scenarios/raw/master/cloud-development-with-wildfly/cloud-development-with-wildfly-chapter-06-01/images/2c38cd5f-a617-4ecd-a2c7-34b583d61940.png)

The storage driver has found the `~/A/A.txt` file in **COPY
A** layer and copied it to the writable layer of **CONTAINER1**.
Subsequent reads and writes of the `~/A/A.txt`file from
**CONTAINER1** will read/write the file from **CONTAINER1**'s writable
layer.

Let's suppose that **CONTAINER3** wants to write to the
`~/A/A.txt`file:

![](https://github.com/athertahir/katacoda-scenarios/raw/master/cloud-development-with-wildfly/cloud-development-with-wildfly-chapter-06-01/images/ef2ab0a4-7b2e-4e9d-8e08-3ef3f9998548.png)

The situation is analogous; the file is copied to **CONTAINER3**'s
writable layer. Let's look at the current situation. Each container has
had access to the Fedora distribution and modified some of its parts.

### Note

**CONTAINER1** and **CONTAINER3** still share most of the data, as only
the files modified by the given container are copied to its writable
layer.

As you will noticed in the preceding diagram, the implementation of
Docker images provides an effective way of storing multiple images on
the same host. Then, what about container startup time? The container
uses the resources of the underlying Linux kernel and reuses the image
layers (provided that they are presentâ€”if not, they are downloaded only
once). Because of that, starting the container means creating a writable
layer and running the container processes using Kernel isolation
features. As you are able to see, such processes are very lightweight
compared to the hardware virtualization. As a result, containers can be
started and stopped immediately.

By this point, we have described the implications of Docker image
architecture on container virtualization performance. You may have
doubts regarding the performance of such an implementation in other
circumstances. Surely, a layered filesystem would have a performance
penalty if we decided to run a database on it. That's a good point that
has to be clarified. A Docker-layered filesystem is used to work
effectively with Docker containers. The layered filesystem is not meant
to store data that requires high performance; this is the role of
volumes, which we will learn about in the next chapter.

### Note

There may be different implementations of a storage driver. For example,
copy on write strategy may be implemented on the file or page-cache
level. Docker provides a number of implementations, and choosingthe
correct one depends on your use case.

If you are interested in the architecture of specific storage drivers,
or you are researching which driver is best for your use case, refer to
the Docker documentation.
